'mostly open source' - you can look at it, not contribute
copying of source is encouraged
about 75% market share vs 15% ios (somewhat misleading, since iOS is more
  popular in wealthy countries)

Activities -> can be thought of as a screen
phone call app -> list of contacts -> contact info -> phone dialer
web page -> click phone number -> phone dialer
reusable components 

Fragment - not another activity, but a way of replacing content.

apps are Stacks of activities

Back button
if one activity for user task, all is well
do it yourself if 
  multiple tasks
  custom game interface
*not* undo
'get me back to what I was doing before'
look at a list of books. Open one. Read a few pages. Press back.
   Currently reading, back should go back to the list.

Services
thought of as a special type of background process:
  playing music
  downloading files
keeps happening even when user is not looking at your app
could happen on startup, or triggered by user, or periodically (syncing email)

Getting ContentProviders
provides a set of contents to anyone authorized to access it.
owner of contentprovider defines the api to get and write to your info
Cursor mCursor = getContentResolver()
 .query (UserDictionary.Words.CONTENT_URI
 blah blah blah)

 Intents
 'serializable objects used to communicate between/within apps'
 start activities/services
 broadcast event: "SMS message received" intent can be sent by SMS service
 Where's my phone gets permission to get intent of SMS service, and then
 starts doing some stuff

 Involving intents:
 request system to find an app that can perform a service.
 'Would you like to use N N N to perform this action?'
 
pressing home button sends an intent for home.
home screen is just an app which responds to this request.

package manager shows some info about installed apps

Permissions:
Apps define Permissions they wish to use
Users must accept all of them to install the app.
in addition to system permissions, apis can define permissions to their stuff.

iOS allows all API's and data are available (with minor exceptions)
review process to check they are not abused.

Windows:
Pre-UAC: all system APIs are available
Post-UAC: some require elevation

Avoid scaring your users:
Give a reason to do give permissions - on the page. 
avoid permissions of there is an alternate way to do things.
instead of requesting write to contents permission,
send an intent to have the Contacts app 
